# LLM-Detect-ai-generated-text
ML Model based on Classification and pre-trained models such as Bert , GPT-3 to detect AI generated text
With the advent of LLMs such as Chat GPT, Bard it has become significantly easy
to plagiarize texts,spread false information and they have the ability to
effectively replicate human speech. Therefore, to maintain ingenuity, it becomes
important to detect LLM generated text.
For this we have multiple approaches. The approaches discussed are:
(1) Traditional Classification Algorithms
(2) Deep Learning approaches
Black Box Detection Methods and  White Box Detection Methods
What Are Some Metrics used by AI Content Detection Tools?
(1) Perplexity: It is a measure of newness of text to the model. Higher perplexity means
the text is generated by LLM. Lower perplexity means that the text has been generated by
student.
BURSTINESS:Burstiness refersto the distribution of topics or ideas within a piece of
content. It measures how frequently certain topics or ideas appear in a short span of time.
A bursty content has frequent occurrences of certain topics, resulting in a non-uniform
distribution.
PROCEDURE:
(1) DATA COLLECTION:
Data has been collected from kaggle datasets. The links to them are given below:
https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/llm-detect-ai-generated-text/data

(2) EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS: Data has been analyzed in this step. The missing
values are handled. Data is visualized using matplotlib.pylot library. ‘Generated’=0 refersto
student written essays while ‘Generated’=1 refersto LLM generated essays. The percentage
of student generated/LLM generated is visualized in the form of a pie chart.

(3) MODEL TRAINING: As discussed above, model can be trained using classification
algorithms such as SVM, Naive Bayes Algorithm. Also aother approach is to fine tune the
model using pre-trained network such as BERT, GPT-3,RoBERTa.

(4) MODEL EVALUATION: Model will be evaluated using accuracy score, F1 Score,
confidence score. Naive Bayes is giving an accuracy score of 0.9806 on the testing set.
